# MLB_teamrank_NeuralNet

Baseball is not just a sport, but a huge business that the total revenue of the season this year amounted to 10 billion dollars and boasted a combined attendance of nearly 110 million fans across Major League Baseball and Minor League Baseball1. It is natural that a large stake lies in the match outcomes for both professional league teams and baseball fans.
It is also an interesting sport that allows numerous combinations with diverse positions and tactics, which gives a large room for statistical analysis and data analytics. The result of baseball games is determined by more scores and less lost points. Each team in the game takes turns to attack and defend so that the factors determining scores and lost points can be clearly identified (scores depend on hits and base running and lost points rely on pitch and defense), which is great for statistical analysis. Also, although a play can be influenced by luck or bad luck, a result of a match that is an aggregation of many plays, or a rank after a season that is the sum of 162 games are more likely to be decided by a team’s objective capability.

Lastly, baseball has the longest history as the first professional sports of more than 130 years and abundant publicly available data due to its number of games per season and well-accumulated data sources such as Lahman baseball data2, which we used for our machine learning analysis.
We acquired the data that contains the individual players’ performance for the history of MLB. We hypothesize that machine learning algorithms will enable to predict the team’s rank while maintaining individual players’ values in the prediction process and the outcome from this will be more accurate than forecasting teams’ ranks based on the team’s aggregated performance, which is a mean value of the performance of players in a team.

Therefore, we aim to build a model that forecasts the ranks of the team, which accept invidiaul players’ performance as an input using neural-network. Our model approach uses the past 30 years of Lahman baseball data when making a prediction.
